3. Data format
--------------

The data  format is  same as  in the old  program ORBITX  which worked
under DOS.  The  first line contains the object  name (arbitrary), the
next 2  lines contain  RA and  DEC in the  hh.mmss and  dd.mmss format
(used only for precession correction in angle).

The following 10  lines list orbital elements as  (tag, value) on each
line. The  tags are used to  recognize the elements and  should not be
modified.   For irrelevant  elements (such  as K1,  K2, V0  for visual
orbits)  and/or   fixed  elements,  the  tags  are   preceded  with  *
(asterisk).  Missing elements receive zero values.

Object: Name of the object
R.A.:   Right ascension in the form HH.MMSS, e.g. 19.2348 for 19h 23m 48s
Dec.:   Declination, DD.MMSS. Coordinates are used for the precession corr.
P:      Initial value of the orbital period in years or days

T:  Epoch of passage  through periastron  in years  or in  Julian Days
        minus 2400000, e.g. 46789.378. If  it is greated that 3000, it
        is assumed that the epoch  and period are days, otherwise they
        are assumed to be in years.
e:      Eccentricity
a:      Semi-major axis in arcseconds (irrelevant for SBs)
W:      Position angle of the line of nodes in degrees (irrelevant for SBs)
w:      Longitude of the periastron in degrees. According to the conventions
        for VBs, it is counted from the ascending node of the SECONDARY
        whereas for SBs it is counted from the ascending node of the PRIMARY.
        In combined spectroscopic/visual orbits, the spectroscopic
        convention is be adopted.
i:      Inclination of the orbit in degrees (irrelevant for SBs)
K1:     Semi-amplitude of the velocity of the primary in km/s
K2:     Semi-amplitude of the secondary in km/s, irrelevant for SB1s
V0:     Velocity of the center of mass in km/s.

Symbol  'C' in  the first character of a line means  comment,  all such
lines are ignored.

The positional data are in the form (time, theta, rho, error, ..., I1,
...) where ...  means possible extra columns. The tag  'I1' is used to
recognize positional measurements. Other numbers or text can be placed
in (...), provided that the text does not contain 'I1',

The  radial velocity  data  can be  in  two forms:

- (time, RV, error,  ...  Va, ...)  where Va  marks the primary component, Vb
marks the secondary. Lines with the V: tag are ignored.

- (time, RV1, err1, RV2, Err2, ... V2, ...) for SB2 (both velocities).

It is possible  to mix time in years and in  Julian days (with 2400000
always subtracted) in the same file. The unit of time (JD or years) is
defined by the value of the T0 element: JD if T0>3000.

The observational errors are used  to calculate weight.  A fixed error
of  0.3km/s is added  to the  RV errors  in quadrature  (hard-coded in
fitorb,  V0err  can be  changed).   Set  large  errors to  effectively
eliminate poor data from the fit.


